---
id: T1047
title: Windows Management Instrumentation
category: attack-technique
tags:
- execution
- windows
ecosystem: IT
framework: mitre-attack-enterprise
framework_version: '19.1'
is_subtechnique: false
tactics:
- Execution
platforms:
- Windows
embedding_model: text-embedding-004
embedding: 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
---
# T1047 — Windows Management Instrumentation

**Tactics:** Execution  ·  **Platforms:** Windows

## Description

Adversaries may abuse Windows Management Instrumentation (WMI) to execute malicious commands and payloads. WMI is designed for programmers and is the infrastructure for management data and operations on Windows systems. WMI is an administration feature that provides a uniform environment to access Windows system components.

The WMI service enables both local and remote access, though the latter is facilitated by [Remote Services](https://attack.mitre.org/techniques/T1021) such as [Distributed Component Object Model](https://attack.mitre.org/techniques/T1021/003) and [Windows Remote Management](https://attack.mitre.org/techniques/T1021/006). Remote WMI over DCOM operates using port 135, whereas WMI over WinRM operates over port 5985 when using HTTP and 5986 for HTTPS.

An adversary can use WMI to interact with local and remote systems and use it as a means to execute various behaviors, such as gathering information for [Discovery](https://attack.mitre.org/tactics/TA0007) as well as [Execution](https://attack.mitre.org/tactics/TA0002) of commands and payloads. For example, `wmic.exe` can be abused by an adversary to delete shadow copies with the command `wmic.exe Shadowcopy Delete` (i.e., [Inhibit System Recovery](https://attack.mitre.org/techniques/T1490)).

**Note:** `wmic.exe` is deprecated as of January of 2024, with the WMIC feature being “disabled by default” on Windows 11+. WMIC will be removed from subsequent Windows releases and replaced by [PowerShell](https://attack.mitre.org/techniques/T1059/001) as the primary WMI interface. In addition to PowerShell and tools like `wbemtool.exe`, COM APIs can also be used to programmatically interact with WMI via C++, .NET, VBScript, etc.

## Detection

**Behavioral Detection Strategy for WMI Execution Abuse on Windows**
- Detects adversarial abuse of WMI to execute local or remote commands via WMIC, PowerShell, or COM API through a multi-event chain: process creation, command execution, and corresponding network connection if remote. _(log sources: WinEventLog:Sysmon, WinEventLog:WMI)_

## Mitigations

- **Privileged Account Management** (M1026): Privileged Account Management focuses on implementing policies, controls, and tools to securely manage privileged accounts (e.g., SYSTEM, root, or administrative accounts). This includes restricting access, limiting the scope of permissions, monitoring privileged account usage, and ensuring accountability through logging and auditing.This mitigation can be implemented through the following measures:

Account Permissions and Roles:

- Implement RBAC and least privilege principles to allocate permissions securely.
- Use tools like Active Directory Group Policies to enforce access restrictions.

Credential Security:

- Deploy password vaulting tools like CyberArk, HashiCorp Vault, or KeePass for secure storage and rotation of credentials.
- Enforce password policies for complexity, uniqueness, and expiration using tools like Microsoft Group Policy Objects (GPO).

Multi-Factor Authentication (MFA):

- Enforce MFA for all privileged accounts using Duo Security, Okta, or Microsoft Azure AD MFA.

Privileged Access Management (PAM):

- Use PAM solutions like CyberArk, BeyondTrust, or Thycotic to manage, monitor, and audit privileged access.

Auditing and Monitoring:

- Integrate activity monitoring into your SIEM (e.g., Splunk or QRadar) to detect and alert on anomalous privileged account usage.

Just-In-Time Access:

- Deploy JIT solutions like Azure Privileged Identity Management (PIM) or configure ephemeral roles in AWS and GCP to grant time-limited elevated permissions.

*Tools for Implementation*

Privileged Access Management (PAM):

- CyberArk, BeyondTrust, Thycotic, HashiCorp Vault.

Credential Management:

- Microsoft LAPS (Local Admin Password Solution), Password Safe, HashiCorp Vault, KeePass.

Multi-Factor Authentication:

- Duo Security, Okta, Microsoft Azure MFA, Google Authenticator.

Linux Privilege Management:

- sudo configuration, SELinux, AppArmor.

Just-In-Time Access:

- Azure Privileged Identity Management (PIM), AWS IAM Roles with session constraints, GCP Identity-Aware Proxy.
- **Behavior Prevention on Endpoint** (M1040): Behavior Prevention on Endpoint refers to the use of technologies and strategies to detect and block potentially malicious activities by analyzing the behavior of processes, files, API calls, and other endpoint events. Rather than relying solely on known signatures, this approach leverages heuristics, machine learning, and real-time monitoring to identify anomalous patterns indicative of an attack. This mitigation can be implemented through the following measures:

Suspicious Process Behavior:

- Implementation: Use Endpoint Detection and Response (EDR) tools to monitor and block processes exhibiting unusual behavior, such as privilege escalation attempts.
- Use Case: An attacker uses a known vulnerability to spawn a privileged process from a user-level application. The endpoint tool detects the abnormal parent-child process relationship and blocks the action.

Unauthorized File Access:

- Implementation: Leverage Data Loss Prevention (DLP) or endpoint tools to block processes attempting to access sensitive files without proper authorization.
- Use Case: A process tries to read or modify a sensitive file located in a restricted directory, such as /etc/shadow on Linux or the SAM registry hive on Windows. The endpoint tool identifies this anomalous behavior and prevents it.

Abnormal API Calls:

- Implementation: Implement runtime analysis tools to monitor API calls and block those associated with malicious activities.
- Use Case: A process dynamically injects itself into another process to hijack its execution. The endpoint detects the abnormal use of APIs like `OpenProcess` and `WriteProcessMemory` and terminates the offending process.

Exploit Prevention:

- Implementation: Use behavioral exploit prevention tools to detect and block exploits attempting to gain unauthorized access.
- Use Case: A buffer overflow exploit is launched against a vulnerable application. The endpoint detects the anomalous memory write operation and halts the process.
- **User Account Management** (M1018): User Account Management involves implementing and enforcing policies for the lifecycle of user accounts, including creation, modification, and deactivation. Proper account management reduces the attack surface by limiting unauthorized access, managing account privileges, and ensuring accounts are used according to organizational policies. This mitigation can be implemented through the following measures:

Enforcing the Principle of Least Privilege

- Implementation: Assign users only the minimum permissions required to perform their job functions. Regularly audit accounts to ensure no excess permissions are granted.
- Use Case: Reduces the risk of privilege escalation by ensuring accounts cannot perform unauthorized actions.

Implementing Strong Password Policies

- Implementation: Enforce password complexity requirements (e.g., length, character types). Require password expiration every 90 days and disallow password reuse.
- Use Case: Prevents adversaries from gaining unauthorized access through password guessing or brute force attacks.

Managing Dormant and Orphaned Accounts

- Implementation: Implement automated workflows to disable accounts after a set period of inactivity (e.g., 30 days). Remove orphaned accounts (e.g., accounts without an assigned owner) during regular account audits.
- Use Case: Eliminates dormant accounts that could be exploited by attackers.

Account Lockout Policies

- Implementation: Configure account lockout thresholds (e.g., lock accounts after five failed login attempts). Set lockout durations to a minimum of 15 minutes.
- Use Case: Mitigates automated attack techniques that rely on repeated login attempts.

Multi-Factor Authentication (MFA) for High-Risk Accounts

- Implementation: Require MFA for all administrative accounts and high-risk users. Use MFA mechanisms like hardware tokens, authenticator apps, or biometrics.
- Use Case: Prevents unauthorized access, even if credentials are stolen.

Restricting Interactive Logins

- Implementation: Restrict interactive logins for privileged accounts to specific secure systems or management consoles. Use group policies to enforce logon restrictions.
- Use Case: Protects sensitive accounts from misuse or exploitation.

*Tools for Implementation*

Built-in Tools:

- Microsoft Active Directory (AD): Centralized account management and RBAC enforcement.
- Group Policy Object (GPO): Enforce password policies, logon restrictions, and account lockout policies.

Identity and Access Management (IAM) Tools:

- Okta: Centralized user provisioning, MFA, and SSO integration.
- Microsoft Azure Active Directory: Provides advanced account lifecycle management, role-based access, and conditional access policies.

Privileged Account Management (PAM):
- CyberArk, BeyondTrust, Thycotic: Manage and monitor privileged account usage, enforce session recording, and JIT access.
- **Execution Prevention** (M1038): Prevent the execution of unauthorized or malicious code on systems by implementing application control, script blocking, and other execution prevention mechanisms. This ensures that only trusted and authorized code is executed, reducing the risk of malware and unauthorized actions. This mitigation can be implemented through the following measures:

Application Control:

- Use Case: Use tools like AppLocker or Windows Defender Application Control (WDAC) to create whitelists of authorized applications and block unauthorized ones. On Linux, use tools like SELinux or AppArmor to define mandatory access control policies for application execution.
- Implementation: Allow only digitally signed or pre-approved applications to execute on servers and endpoints. (e.g., `New-AppLockerPolicy -PolicyType Enforced -FilePath "C:\Policies\AppLocker.xml"`)


Script Blocking:

- Use Case: Use script control mechanisms to block unauthorized execution of scripts, such as PowerShell or JavaScript. Web Browsers: Use browser extensions or settings to block JavaScript execution from untrusted sources.
- Implementation: Configure PowerShell to enforce Constrained Language Mode for non-administrator users. (e.g., `Set-ExecutionPolicy AllSigned`)

Executable Blocking:

- Use Case: Prevent execution of binaries from suspicious locations, such as `%TEMP%` or `%APPDATA%` directories.
- Implementation: Block execution of `.exe`, `.bat`, or `.ps1` files from user-writable directories.

Dynamic Analysis Prevention:
- Use Case: Use behavior-based execution prevention tools to identify and block malicious activity in real time.
- Implemenation: Employ EDR solutions that analyze runtime behavior and block suspicious code execution.

## Reference

- ATT&CK: https://attack.mitre.org/techniques/T1047

