---
id: T1574.012
title: COR_PROFILER
category: attack-technique
tags:
- execution
- stealth
- windows
ecosystem: IT
framework: mitre-attack-enterprise
framework_version: '19.1'
is_subtechnique: true
parent_id: T1574
tactics:
- Stealth
- Execution
platforms:
- Windows
embedding_model: text-embedding-004
embedding: 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
---
# T1574.012 — COR_PROFILER

**Tactics:** Stealth, Execution  ·  **Platforms:** Windows  ·  **Sub-technique of:** T1574

## Description

Adversaries may leverage the COR_PROFILER environment variable to hijack the execution flow of programs that load the .NET CLR. The COR_PROFILER is a .NET Framework feature which allows developers to specify an unmanaged (or external of .NET) profiling DLL to be loaded into each .NET process that loads the Common Language Runtime (CLR). These profilers are designed to monitor, troubleshoot, and debug managed code executed by the .NET CLR.

The COR_PROFILER environment variable can be set at various scopes (system, user, or process) resulting in different levels of influence. System and user-wide environment variable scopes are specified in the Registry, where a [Component Object Model](https://attack.mitre.org/techniques/T1559/001) (COM) object can be registered as a profiler DLL. A process scope COR_PROFILER can also be created in-memory without modifying the Registry. Starting with .NET Framework 4, the profiling DLL does not need to be registered as long as the location of the DLL is specified in the COR_PROFILER_PATH environment variable.

Adversaries may abuse COR_PROFILER to establish persistence that executes a malicious DLL in the context of all .NET processes every time the CLR is invoked. The COR_PROFILER can also be used to elevate privileges (ex: [Bypass User Account Control](https://attack.mitre.org/techniques/T1548/002)) if the victim .NET process executes at a higher permission level, as well as to hook and impair defenses provided by .NET processes.

## Detection

**Detection Strategy for Hijack Execution Flow using the Windows COR_PROFILER.**
- Modification of COR_PROFILER-related environment variables or Registry keys (COR_ENABLE_PROFILING, COR_PROFILER, COR_PROFILER_PATH), combined with anomalous .NET process creation or unmanaged DLL loads. Defender observes registry modifications, suspicious process creation with altered environment variables, and profiler DLLs loaded unexpectedly into .NET CLR processes. _(log sources: WinEventLog:Security, WinEventLog:Sysmon)_

## Mitigations

- **Restrict Registry Permissions** (M1024): Restricting registry permissions involves configuring access control settings for sensitive registry keys and hives to ensure that only authorized users or processes can make modifications. By limiting access, organizations can prevent unauthorized changes that adversaries might use for persistence, privilege escalation, or defense evasion. This mitigation can be implemented through the following measures:

Review and Adjust Permissions on Critical Keys

- Regularly review permissions on keys such as `Run`, `RunOnce`, and `Services` to ensure only authorized users have write access.
- Use tools like `icacls` or `PowerShell` to automate permission adjustments.

Enable Registry Auditing

- Enable auditing on sensitive keys to log access attempts.
- Use Event Viewer or SIEM solutions to analyze logs and detect suspicious activity.
- Example Audit Policy: `auditpol /set /subcategory:"Registry" /success:enable /failure:enable`

Protect Credential-Related Hives

- Limit access to hives like `SAM`,`SECURITY`, and `SYSTEM` to prevent credential dumping or other unauthorized access.
- Use LSA Protection to add an additional security layer for credential storage.

Restrict Registry Editor Usage

- Use Group Policy to restrict access to regedit.exe for non-administrative users.
- Block execution of registry editing tools on endpoints where they are unnecessary.

Deploy Baseline Configuration Tools

- Use tools like Microsoft Security Compliance Toolkit or CIS Benchmarks to apply and maintain secure registry configurations.

*Tools for Implementation*

Registry Permission Tools:

- Registry Editor (regedit): Built-in tool to manage registry permissions.
- PowerShell: Automate permissions and manage keys. `Set-ItemProperty -Path "HKLM:\Software\Microsoft\Windows\CurrentVersion\Run" -Name "KeyName" -Value "Value"`
- icacls: Command-line tool to modify ACLs.

Monitoring Tools:

- Sysmon: Monitor and log registry events.
- Event Viewer: View registry access logs.

Policy Management Tools:

- Group Policy Management Console (GPMC): Enforce registry permissions via GPOs.
- Microsoft Endpoint Manager: Deploy configuration baselines for registry permissions.
- **Execution Prevention** (M1038): Prevent the execution of unauthorized or malicious code on systems by implementing application control, script blocking, and other execution prevention mechanisms. This ensures that only trusted and authorized code is executed, reducing the risk of malware and unauthorized actions. This mitigation can be implemented through the following measures:

Application Control:

- Use Case: Use tools like AppLocker or Windows Defender Application Control (WDAC) to create whitelists of authorized applications and block unauthorized ones. On Linux, use tools like SELinux or AppArmor to define mandatory access control policies for application execution.
- Implementation: Allow only digitally signed or pre-approved applications to execute on servers and endpoints. (e.g., `New-AppLockerPolicy -PolicyType Enforced -FilePath "C:\Policies\AppLocker.xml"`)


Script Blocking:

- Use Case: Use script control mechanisms to block unauthorized execution of scripts, such as PowerShell or JavaScript. Web Browsers: Use browser extensions or settings to block JavaScript execution from untrusted sources.
- Implementation: Configure PowerShell to enforce Constrained Language Mode for non-administrator users. (e.g., `Set-ExecutionPolicy AllSigned`)

Executable Blocking:

- Use Case: Prevent execution of binaries from suspicious locations, such as `%TEMP%` or `%APPDATA%` directories.
- Implementation: Block execution of `.exe`, `.bat`, or `.ps1` files from user-writable directories.

Dynamic Analysis Prevention:
- Use Case: Use behavior-based execution prevention tools to identify and block malicious activity in real time.
- Implemenation: Employ EDR solutions that analyze runtime behavior and block suspicious code execution.
- **User Account Management** (M1018): User Account Management involves implementing and enforcing policies for the lifecycle of user accounts, including creation, modification, and deactivation. Proper account management reduces the attack surface by limiting unauthorized access, managing account privileges, and ensuring accounts are used according to organizational policies. This mitigation can be implemented through the following measures:

Enforcing the Principle of Least Privilege

- Implementation: Assign users only the minimum permissions required to perform their job functions. Regularly audit accounts to ensure no excess permissions are granted.
- Use Case: Reduces the risk of privilege escalation by ensuring accounts cannot perform unauthorized actions.

Implementing Strong Password Policies

- Implementation: Enforce password complexity requirements (e.g., length, character types). Require password expiration every 90 days and disallow password reuse.
- Use Case: Prevents adversaries from gaining unauthorized access through password guessing or brute force attacks.

Managing Dormant and Orphaned Accounts

- Implementation: Implement automated workflows to disable accounts after a set period of inactivity (e.g., 30 days). Remove orphaned accounts (e.g., accounts without an assigned owner) during regular account audits.
- Use Case: Eliminates dormant accounts that could be exploited by attackers.

Account Lockout Policies

- Implementation: Configure account lockout thresholds (e.g., lock accounts after five failed login attempts). Set lockout durations to a minimum of 15 minutes.
- Use Case: Mitigates automated attack techniques that rely on repeated login attempts.

Multi-Factor Authentication (MFA) for High-Risk Accounts

- Implementation: Require MFA for all administrative accounts and high-risk users. Use MFA mechanisms like hardware tokens, authenticator apps, or biometrics.
- Use Case: Prevents unauthorized access, even if credentials are stolen.

Restricting Interactive Logins

- Implementation: Restrict interactive logins for privileged accounts to specific secure systems or management consoles. Use group policies to enforce logon restrictions.
- Use Case: Protects sensitive accounts from misuse or exploitation.

*Tools for Implementation*

Built-in Tools:

- Microsoft Active Directory (AD): Centralized account management and RBAC enforcement.
- Group Policy Object (GPO): Enforce password policies, logon restrictions, and account lockout policies.

Identity and Access Management (IAM) Tools:

- Okta: Centralized user provisioning, MFA, and SSO integration.
- Microsoft Azure Active Directory: Provides advanced account lifecycle management, role-based access, and conditional access policies.

Privileged Account Management (PAM):
- CyberArk, BeyondTrust, Thycotic: Manage and monitor privileged account usage, enforce session recording, and JIT access.

## Reference

- ATT&CK: https://attack.mitre.org/techniques/T1574/012

