---
id: T1598.002
title: Spearphishing Attachment
category: attack-technique
tags:
- pre
- reconnaissance
ecosystem: IT
framework: mitre-attack-enterprise
framework_version: '19.1'
is_subtechnique: true
parent_id: T1598
tactics:
- Reconnaissance
platforms:
- PRE
embedding_model: text-embedding-004
embedding: 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
---
# T1598.002 — Spearphishing Attachment

**Tactics:** Reconnaissance  ·  **Platforms:** PRE  ·  **Sub-technique of:** T1598

## Description

Adversaries may send spearphishing messages with a malicious attachment to elicit sensitive information that can be used during targeting. Spearphishing for information is an attempt to trick targets into divulging information, frequently credentials or other actionable information. Spearphishing for information frequently involves social engineering techniques, such as posing as a source with a reason to collect information (ex: [Establish Accounts](https://attack.mitre.org/techniques/T1585) or [Compromise Accounts](https://attack.mitre.org/techniques/T1586)) and/or sending multiple, seemingly urgent messages.

All forms of spearphishing are electronically delivered social engineering targeted at a specific individual, company, or industry. In this scenario, adversaries attach a file to the spearphishing email. In some cases, they may rely upon the recipient populating information, then returning the file. The text of the spearphishing email usually tries to give a plausible reason why the file should be filled-in, such as a request for information from a business associate. In other cases, adversaries may leverage techniques such as [HTML Smuggling](https://attack.mitre.org/techniques/T1027/006) to harvest user credentials via fake login portals.

Adversaries may also use information from previous reconnaissance efforts (ex: [Search Open Websites/Domains](https://attack.mitre.org/techniques/T1593) or [Search Victim-Owned Websites](https://attack.mitre.org/techniques/T1594)) to craft persuasive and believable lures.

## Detection

**Detection of Spearphishing Attachment**
- Monitor network data for uncommon data flows. Processes utilizing the network that do not normally have network communication or have never been seen before are suspicious.
Monitor for suspicious email activity, such as numerous accounts receiving messages from a single unusual/unknown sender. Filtering based on DKIM+SPF or header analysis can help detect when the email sender is spoofed.
Monitor and analyze traffic patterns and packet inspection associated to protocol(s) that do not follow the expected protocol standards and traffic flows (e.g extraneous packets that do not belong to established flows, gratuitous or anomalous traffic patterns, anomalous syntax, or structure). Consider correlation with process monitoring and command line to detect anomalous processes execution and command line arguments associated to traffic patterns (e.g. monitor anomalies in use of files that do not normally initiate connections for respective protocol(s)). _(log sources: Application Log, Network Traffic)_

## Mitigations

- **User Training** (M1017): User Training involves educating employees and contractors on recognizing, reporting, and preventing cyber threats that rely on human interaction, such as phishing, social engineering, and other manipulative techniques. Comprehensive training programs create a human firewall by empowering users to be an active component of the organization's cybersecurity defenses. This mitigation can be implemented through the following measures:

Create Comprehensive Training Programs:

- Design training modules tailored to the organization's risk profile, covering topics such as phishing, password management, and incident reporting.
- Provide role-specific training for high-risk employees, such as helpdesk staff or executives.

Use Simulated Exercises:

- Conduct phishing simulations to measure user susceptibility and provide targeted follow-up training.
- Run social engineering drills to evaluate employee responses and reinforce protocols.

Leverage Gamification and Engagement:

- Introduce interactive learning methods such as quizzes, gamified challenges, and rewards for successful detection and reporting of threats.

Incorporate Security Policies into Onboarding:

- Include cybersecurity training as part of the onboarding process for new employees.
- Provide easy-to-understand materials outlining acceptable use policies and reporting procedures.

Regular Refresher Courses:

- Update training materials to include emerging threats and techniques used by adversaries.
- Ensure all employees complete periodic refresher courses to stay informed.

Emphasize Real-World Scenarios:

- Use case studies of recent attacks to demonstrate the consequences of successful phishing or social engineering.
- Discuss how specific employee actions can prevent or mitigate such attacks.
- **Software Configuration** (M1054): Software configuration refers to making security-focused adjustments to the settings of applications, middleware, databases, or other software to mitigate potential threats. These changes help reduce the attack surface, enforce best practices, and protect sensitive data. This mitigation can be implemented through the following measures:

Conduct a Security Review of Application Settings:

- Review the software documentation to identify recommended security configurations.
- Compare default settings against organizational policies and compliance requirements.

Implement Access Controls and Permissions:

- Restrict access to sensitive features or data within the software.
- Enforce least privilege principles for all roles and accounts interacting with the software.

Enable Logging and Monitoring:

- Configure detailed logging for key application events such as authentication failures, configuration changes, or unusual activity.
- Integrate logs with a centralized monitoring solution, such as a SIEM.

Update and Patch Software Regularly:

- Ensure the software is kept up-to-date with the latest security patches to address known vulnerabilities.
- Use automated patch management tools to streamline the update process.

Disable Unnecessary Features or Services:

- Turn off unused functionality or components that could introduce vulnerabilities, such as debugging interfaces or deprecated APIs.

Test Configuration Changes:

- Perform configuration changes in a staging environment before applying them in production.
- Conduct regular audits to ensure that settings remain aligned with security policies.

*Tools for Implementation*

Configuration Management Tools:

- Ansible: Automates configuration changes across multiple applications and environments.
- Chef: Ensures consistent application settings through code-based configuration management.
- Puppet: Automates software configurations and audits changes for compliance.

Security Benchmarking Tools:

- CIS-CAT: Provides benchmarks and audits for secure software configurations.
- Aqua Security Trivy: Scans containerized applications for configuration issues.

Vulnerability Management Solutions:

- Nessus: Identifies misconfigurations and suggests corrective actions.

Logging and Monitoring Tools:

- Splunk: Aggregates and analyzes application logs to detect suspicious activity.

## Reference

- ATT&CK: https://attack.mitre.org/techniques/T1598/002

