---
id: T1677
title: Poisoned Pipeline Execution
category: attack-technique
tags:
- execution
- saas
ecosystem: IT
framework: mitre-attack-enterprise
framework_version: '19.1'
is_subtechnique: false
tactics:
- Execution
platforms:
- SaaS
embedding_model: text-embedding-004
embedding: 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
---
# T1677 — Poisoned Pipeline Execution

**Tactics:** Execution  ·  **Platforms:** SaaS

## Description

Adversaries may manipulate continuous integration / continuous development (CI/CD) processes by injecting malicious code into the build process. There are several mechanisms for poisoning pipelines:

* In a <b>Direct Pipeline Execution</b> scenario, the threat actor directly modifies the CI configuration file (e.g., `gitlab-ci.yml` in GitLab). They may include a command to exfiltrate credentials leveraged in the build process to a remote server, or to export them as a workflow artifact.
* In an <b>Indirect Pipeline Execution</b> scenario, the threat actor injects malicious code into files referenced by the CI configuration file. These may include makefiles, scripts, unit tests, and linters.
* In a <b>Public Pipeline Execution</b> scenario, the threat actor does not have direct access to the repository but instead creates a malicious pull request from a fork that triggers a part of the CI/CD pipeline. For example, in GitHub Actions, the `pull_request_target` trigger allows workflows running from forked repositories to access secrets.  If this trigger is combined with an explicit pull request checkout and a location for a threat actor to insert malicious code (e.g., an `npm build` command), a threat actor may be able to leak pipeline credentials. Similarly, threat actors may craft pull requests with malicious inputs (such as branch names) if the build pipeline treats those inputs as trusted. Finally, if a pipeline leverages a self-hosted runner, a threat actor may be able to execute arbitrary code on a host inside the organization’s network.

By poisoning CI/CD pipelines, threat actors may be able to gain access to credentials, laterally move to additional hosts, or input malicious components to be shipped further down the pipeline (i.e., [Supply Chain Compromise](https://attack.mitre.org/techniques/T1195)).

## Detection

**Detection Strategy for Poisoned Pipeline Execution via SaaS CI/CD Workflows**
- Detects anomalous CI/CD workflow execution originating from forked repositories, with pull request (PR) metadata or commit messages containing suspicious patterns (e.g., encoded payloads), coupled with the use of insecure pipeline triggers like `pull_request_target` or excessive API usage of CI/CD secrets. Correlation with unusual artifact generation or secret exfiltration via encoded or external network destination URLs confirms suspicious behavior. _(log sources: saas:PRMetadata, saas:RepoEvents, saas:github)_

## Mitigations

- **User Account Management** (M1018): User Account Management involves implementing and enforcing policies for the lifecycle of user accounts, including creation, modification, and deactivation. Proper account management reduces the attack surface by limiting unauthorized access, managing account privileges, and ensuring accounts are used according to organizational policies. This mitigation can be implemented through the following measures:

Enforcing the Principle of Least Privilege

- Implementation: Assign users only the minimum permissions required to perform their job functions. Regularly audit accounts to ensure no excess permissions are granted.
- Use Case: Reduces the risk of privilege escalation by ensuring accounts cannot perform unauthorized actions.

Implementing Strong Password Policies

- Implementation: Enforce password complexity requirements (e.g., length, character types). Require password expiration every 90 days and disallow password reuse.
- Use Case: Prevents adversaries from gaining unauthorized access through password guessing or brute force attacks.

Managing Dormant and Orphaned Accounts

- Implementation: Implement automated workflows to disable accounts after a set period of inactivity (e.g., 30 days). Remove orphaned accounts (e.g., accounts without an assigned owner) during regular account audits.
- Use Case: Eliminates dormant accounts that could be exploited by attackers.

Account Lockout Policies

- Implementation: Configure account lockout thresholds (e.g., lock accounts after five failed login attempts). Set lockout durations to a minimum of 15 minutes.
- Use Case: Mitigates automated attack techniques that rely on repeated login attempts.

Multi-Factor Authentication (MFA) for High-Risk Accounts

- Implementation: Require MFA for all administrative accounts and high-risk users. Use MFA mechanisms like hardware tokens, authenticator apps, or biometrics.
- Use Case: Prevents unauthorized access, even if credentials are stolen.

Restricting Interactive Logins

- Implementation: Restrict interactive logins for privileged accounts to specific secure systems or management consoles. Use group policies to enforce logon restrictions.
- Use Case: Protects sensitive accounts from misuse or exploitation.

*Tools for Implementation*

Built-in Tools:

- Microsoft Active Directory (AD): Centralized account management and RBAC enforcement.
- Group Policy Object (GPO): Enforce password policies, logon restrictions, and account lockout policies.

Identity and Access Management (IAM) Tools:

- Okta: Centralized user provisioning, MFA, and SSO integration.
- Microsoft Azure Active Directory: Provides advanced account lifecycle management, role-based access, and conditional access policies.

Privileged Account Management (PAM):
- CyberArk, BeyondTrust, Thycotic: Manage and monitor privileged account usage, enforce session recording, and JIT access.
- **Software Configuration** (M1054): Software configuration refers to making security-focused adjustments to the settings of applications, middleware, databases, or other software to mitigate potential threats. These changes help reduce the attack surface, enforce best practices, and protect sensitive data. This mitigation can be implemented through the following measures:

Conduct a Security Review of Application Settings:

- Review the software documentation to identify recommended security configurations.
- Compare default settings against organizational policies and compliance requirements.

Implement Access Controls and Permissions:

- Restrict access to sensitive features or data within the software.
- Enforce least privilege principles for all roles and accounts interacting with the software.

Enable Logging and Monitoring:

- Configure detailed logging for key application events such as authentication failures, configuration changes, or unusual activity.
- Integrate logs with a centralized monitoring solution, such as a SIEM.

Update and Patch Software Regularly:

- Ensure the software is kept up-to-date with the latest security patches to address known vulnerabilities.
- Use automated patch management tools to streamline the update process.

Disable Unnecessary Features or Services:

- Turn off unused functionality or components that could introduce vulnerabilities, such as debugging interfaces or deprecated APIs.

Test Configuration Changes:

- Perform configuration changes in a staging environment before applying them in production.
- Conduct regular audits to ensure that settings remain aligned with security policies.

*Tools for Implementation*

Configuration Management Tools:

- Ansible: Automates configuration changes across multiple applications and environments.
- Chef: Ensures consistent application settings through code-based configuration management.
- Puppet: Automates software configurations and audits changes for compliance.

Security Benchmarking Tools:

- CIS-CAT: Provides benchmarks and audits for secure software configurations.
- Aqua Security Trivy: Scans containerized applications for configuration issues.

Vulnerability Management Solutions:

- Nessus: Identifies misconfigurations and suggests corrective actions.

Logging and Monitoring Tools:

- Splunk: Aggregates and analyzes application logs to detect suspicious activity.

## Reference

- ATT&CK: https://attack.mitre.org/techniques/T1677

