---
id: T0868
title: Detect Operating Mode
category: attack-technique
tags:
- collection
ecosystem: OT
framework: mitre-attack-ics
framework_version: '19.1'
is_subtechnique: false
tactics:
- Collection
embedding_model: text-embedding-004
embedding: KK7Wu+nKvDzdZJC9ZnCfPGONJD11F1I9bmzePZJGNj3Nfgm8UYE4PE19bT2ixfo8rH2IupaScz2WaBy8rC9LvWFCiz05gzA9NrjKvOn2Ib17ICY7kmvkvDGL1LwBuk29OToOvQQy8bzsSuo8XWpovXZQsLxLWJS8i66JPSupczwpx+w82fvnvJ/8Aj0lvkC8SoYOvCmPIz0IcQ29L/rjvFKxfr1xbuS8NF0svbHbQj1nHkG9cVKNvMrXYLxqvVU8cw+XvOrkf7ymCLE8keCWuwezN71ClfY8yVmuvO2FG71GYI+7g/olvbnbgb2jOxk8kGvIvO6DOr2p0ck87ui7O5dLdTtUEg+8UHNbvU59mbzPLT29Q9AZPSuPTb3tHZU9ua+svJmYXTvUt7q8zm+AvP85zDyZrsW8kSd1O40tKj08WHO7+JrJPKPVJz0U9SC8K8//PHqIYbv6b749kaltvYhjnrysqaO807fwPT+ETj0k7UG80P/8PB+Djz1/ogw8h0sUvelQsr35V109sEVsO5EVz7x98907xCk8vceVy7sQNzM9HD0DPemRa70WEju9LsvGvfUlYz32oa48N3QQPc2rLD1sMJA7KM9MvH1pbryGw0M8l5naOyM3KL3pmlK9c5tDPduAgz3RqVS8rS5XPUUh/zzdwxO9lRwtuxiWWbwRoRC9em4BPLW6Rz311L69H9T0vLO8Xz3++bC726sfvP79Jjwci788zYw6vFrnaD3Yi968074JvDMwlL0flO4777O/OjgxtbxMDkE9keO4PbX5eLwb7iE9XDfCvNUpGrt2Bdq7YKKIvIAbSzt1A4Q79LKMPPwpy7zGLik9RznJu0FTLj00iuW7tIHgujpMQL3OLxu9G8Y2vSZpOb0JLSe9Q8uLPD5ynbxcIDC8kAZqOlAQCb34tq29YePQPGeWlzw5H5W7b18JvWpVyzugHvO87ACMPXiqrjzLxAo8RV2nvYT1rrxA9RQ9pyxZPW6ZWD0BFTk9+SFUPTFTHD3GepK8/ZnxPPAkvjzOErm8i1RaPGAvLjyeDgy9M6GMu4ABkDr97u082acEveI42jw5l6a9Wh2AvYs6gz2kg/W6rJttvdHvQLw9a3q8H1qQO3UtfzrMRmO8JEBbvbZmlLwc+687uwJ9PDNx5DwwJZw9d8o3vfdQlDt2YtW8sllsPMDk5Dy5fQo9HJFzPTg+7by6YpM77mkjPffd9byN8cc8g9wQPQUGjruODlk8uzaFPCy5djyocsg8yuN9vMPHujmnGu66fikSO+bMfD1h3AE9SVibvEBG0D1tU7K7PUYPPH+ab7tFNIk8jIenvJjJgjwWqlS90DO2vL84PD0Mpw29X9V0PPc7LD2aNsM8FlLMO/bPnr1PWuY9TeGYPEuNCjyDTzu9CrjivAsT5by+8ic6iPevvI94E7y+rJ28ZOskPcrGVTt9BZo6SoAsvLechr35rto7BTRXvYakET2D/mO9k8RNvWjRJ72uSo48FY37u/Rgo7oIiJu8OXgkveNbLLsbUJc8AfMDvTZEJr3lNnw9JoXsPPpHRbwqbSO9PudkvPrRADuu4kM9TD9UPWKdKr3gCHW8tk5pPe5JMD1FiJO7B6ARu6UcjDn8GTs7K0FmvfUqlzluAX27e4oyvEcQKD23V/o87wsNubOlvjxvll29e6GwPB68M76HEiS9IzYUvdcPPDnrdCE8LFlDPb1jLb0p36G7/eTEvIEH1rtUHKK7ri1LPH0QzrudXaK8pNq0vIsCqbwbGTW9vJQZvZA+AjzGjI48Kq1PvRslIzz6w409/rdLPBYxnrybzo09ywmePWnEHT3pABm9yqfevNDxuzzWyQo95t6BPSOHAz3YJJA9zd+YPQmUqLyddwm9k68RPESb0bwDMKg9h1gDvajfQTwQHY28EzXfPA7AaT1tlLg8c26KPCVSBz2mRj88oOtfPRQ32DzfqhI9qq8dvWfyKL1WtDw80zSLvCJDFT3JCcU8qoRnvSoLR73uoHw8fksYvTSnRbymd0O9tPtAvb1/v7z+WwE8AKtVPF4AWTwjHxu9MBUIOaO8R7sVABg9+pGdu9S0Kj3tnaU8vjAPPdHgSr2Bc6i7KySNvXaSgDz2aFw9CrQSvBdOeLyx0Y68km+GPb+lPL0F83k8sKEtvFfYrj1JY9Q8ORUkvZSd7TzkpJ68UgcivSWyJTyGdg08LfRcvCfnvbyU8RQ9xxU0PTiLFzsnJ6A9CAqpPCj6TLypnRk8KTf+OpPajzwoJdS6JMP1vKOdOD15TaA8hrYHvcXMWbvmfi49YBgcu9Ctbz1oocK8K+XTPJT0Ajsm8h29/w3pPCImIz1ARvy80UVVPA3/uzsjrzE7h/bNu/6qjDyBxiM9lpgdPT9XmryhzCu9GvV7Oy7+1bkIrMS74J2Nui/s5L0x6Ay9RGY1PbCa7zw4iDm8V6emPJ3alrwAULa8rr7YPPks6LoLcqa7GVKIvEn/TT3R9WI9uPh9PVbh7zzCJhc9IvIjPZWrgj3fNjk6pZhAvC7BQT2MS/A87iIgvVVTKD2So2S8cBIgvJ3TUTyHbhk8WZgWOygxej3v2ae8ZzNBvWBvJzsWqyy9ceWFOgiw6DuOnAQ93NVNvISONL22Gx499AERPBvLjT0j0bA86DMHvY7Glj0Dma89DZo5PIoyzLzqG/O8VAr8ukKU4zy6D1O9gYOyvMtmSz32zH493vYoPYMe7byWbyc9Y7CYPHONiTo9CZS7jfBoO2TIgLy/T9W8GL2mPaCBLr23QZe7ss7bPHtbAjyCht28ruLDvNx0Yj2CIre8q1bePCC8RDwGysa6wieRPcHV2zsNcjI9g++IPC8Bdj0vC9m84DblPPT4rD2MP7U6U11oO0T2DLzbDTa8xpkyPc/jyTwzQym8eLWOu4I1Fj3SLeU8tfpYPUAfpzzTvOw8HaSovOD77Tt06pQ8krMxvYut2Dy8my686R+uPHhKm7wi6D28gyhvvbTblTw4bsy6P1vNvEUriDx+xvS7UQqqOw8kJL3dAXc7Y27xvIvy4rnWGO08A2W5uinwpjzJEsa821mjvKdeCDyvUYM80pibvFNLbTwFnBi8SIAzPaMlo7xlpg67VMAYvfBgpDw4+eG6/3dVPBFsOrxcDse86pifPLtLgj0MaWq9omoMvIYI9DwhfDK9K8OBPA4YfzwSuY282kTHPJqZQ7sBRiY9UXuOPN04Br1MvWG7DAEzPFG7W71wM8q7dHtmPHoJMjvqAis9BCe+u0V3ir1vuE29OWDGPHuqeL3lMgW9xwDrurgdtjxOxYO7t4vIu2TBXzvzZgI7gaknvPYTTL0hHis9f5uzPAOKnzp6qzI97FQWvXNqULxOqVU9zkWRu9+o2zuE2SY7JCkXOub7qTtxfde75kOmvbVaGj0iv2U98T6CPbvjjblkmtq9B+6ivGNeuzwxU4u9R8lOvULd5zyqu2G9wKVwPY7ahL3vjmI7tSRLvaFbgLzIDRi9wYEFPXcmh7y5/q46zyXDvLiUhb1qLkO9G7eEu7dnALwS1/o78RoUvU7eyTxcxZW7eVFZvA828bh3pUa9iE8BvVb7kT2lvJS7M0zuvEWDtLrsL5c8FtRUvUAW6jx8fSE9fV4jvdgY8TyABMI8HWuSPNhBTT0JZFw8uoCnPP10CbwVHow954MYPVlfAb0MVpS7uA62PLVIULwxFo09EuOGO/ovJDyH7PC88I/qu86M3byjO6g7WwYCveyVDb0aV2s8KH7Cu/KUIz1n2SM9qymrvHLeHjyhcmO9A35sO4bcBj3BkaE8tioNvK24vzw6eIY8gvEcPd19nTxF0yK9v0qxPD8tXDxKd1U9YS1wPR2BEDxeNVs93R4QvaEsPLxVDOW8QcWpuhZSNby6EpI6XyUCuhDBjD0N5P68Bb+pO0wWPLz+0yy95OKpvKJU1rvxqio9N6MavEcQJ70kDOk8r3imPHj3dbzWZdA7iRVxvAElyjvq85C8S/WOvUx1FD1r4N+7gYC5PHqF97wh6JE83peovEEKZDvHVd876fQyPAT+Ib15JDQ9N+oYvU+CSzuvwfq7S/GtvR52Pj0WS0I8
---
# T0868 — Detect Operating Mode

**Tactics:** Collection

## Description

Adversaries may gather information about a PLCs or controllers current operating mode. Operating modes dictate what change or maintenance functions can be manipulated and are often controlled by a key switch on the PLC (e.g.,  run, prog [program], and remote). Knowledge of these states may be valuable to an adversary to determine if they are able to reprogram the PLC. Operating modes and the mechanisms by which they are selected often vary by vendor and product line. Some commonly implemented operating modes are described below:

* Program - This mode must be enabled before changes can be made to a devices program. This allows program uploads and downloads between the device and an engineering workstation. Often the PLCs logic Is halted, and all outputs may be forced off.
* Run - Execution of the devices program occurs in this mode. Input and output (values, points, tags, elements, etc.) are monitored and used according to the programs logic.[Program Upload](https://attack.mitre.org/techniques/T0845) and [Program Download](https://attack.mitre.org/techniques/T0843) are disabled while in this mode.
* Remote - Allows for remote changes to a PLCs operation mode.
* Stop - The PLC and program is stopped, while in this mode, outputs are forced off.
* Reset - Conditions on the PLC are reset to their original states. Warm resets may retain some memory while cold resets will reset all I/O and data registers.
* Test / Monitor mode - Similar to run mode, I/O is processed, although this mode allows for monitoring, force set, resets, and more generally tuning or debugging of the system. Often monitor mode may be used as a trial for initialization.

## Detection

**Detection of Detect Operating Mode**
- Monitor ICS automation network protocols for functions related to reading an asset’s operating mode. In some cases, there may be multiple ways to detect a device’s operating mode, one of which is typically used in the operational environment. Monitor for the operating mode being checked in unexpected ways. _(log sources: Network Traffic)_

## Mitigations

- **Software Process and Device Authentication** (M0813): Require the authentication of devices and software processes where appropriate. Devices that connect remotely to other systems should require strong authentication to prevent spoofing of communications. Furthermore, software processes should also require authentication when accessing APIs.
- **Human User Authentication** (M0804): Require user authentication before allowing access to data or accepting commands to a device. While strong multi-factor authentication is preferable, it is not always feasible within ICS environments. Performing strong user authentication also requires additional security controls and processes which are often the target of related adversarial techniques (e.g., Valid Accounts, Default Credentials). Therefore, associated ATT&CK mitigations should be considered in addition to this, including [Multi-factor Authentication](https://attack.mitre.org/mitigations/M0932), [Account Use Policies](https://attack.mitre.org/mitigations/M0936), [Password Policies](https://attack.mitre.org/mitigations/M0927), [User Account Management](https://attack.mitre.org/mitigations/M0918), [Privileged Account Management](https://attack.mitre.org/mitigations/M0926), and [User Account Control](https://attack.mitre.org/mitigations/M1052).
- **Filter Network Traffic** (M0937): Use network appliances to filter ingress or egress traffic and perform protocol-based filtering. Configure software on endpoints to filter network traffic.   Perform inline allow/denylisting of network messages based on the application layer (OSI Layer 7) protocol, especially for automation protocols. Application allowlists are beneficial when there are well-defined communication sequences, types, rates, or patterns needed during expected system operations. Application denylists may be needed if all acceptable communication sequences cannot be defined, but instead a set of known malicious uses can be denied (e.g., excessive communication  attempts, shutdown messages, invalid commands).  Devices performing these functions are often referred to as deep-packet inspection (DPI) firewalls, context-aware firewalls, or firewalls blocking specific automation/SCADA protocol aware firewalls.
- **Access Management** (M0801): Access Management technologies can be used to enforce authorization polices and decisions, especially when existing field devices do not provide sufficient capabilities to support user identification and authentication.  These technologies typically utilize an in-line network device or gateway system to prevent access to unauthenticated users, while also integrating with an authentication service to first verify user credentials.
- **Communication Authenticity** (M0802): When communicating over an untrusted network, utilize secure network protocols that both authenticate the message sender and can verify its integrity. This can be done either through message authentication codes (MACs) or digital signatures, to detect spoofed network messages and unauthorized connections.
- **Network Allowlists** (M0807): Network allowlists can be implemented through either host-based files or system hosts files to specify what connections (e.g., IP address, MAC address, port, protocol) can be made from a device. Allowlist techniques that operate at the  application layer (e.g., DNP3, Modbus, HTTP) are addressed in [Filter Network Traffic](https://attack.mitre.org/mitigations/M0937) mitigation.
- **Authorization Enforcement** (M0800): The device or system should restrict read, manipulate, or execute privileges to only authenticated users who require access based on approved security policies.  Role-based Access Control (RBAC) schemes can help reduce the overhead of assigning permissions to the large number of devices within an ICS. For example, IEC 62351 provides examples of roles used to support common system operations within the electric power sector  , while IEEE 1686 defines standard permissions for users of IEDs.
- **Network Segmentation** (M0930): Architect sections of the network to isolate critical systems, functions, or resources. Use physical and logical segmentation to prevent access to potentially sensitive systems and information. Use a DMZ to contain any internet-facing services that should not be exposed from the internal network.  Restrict network access to only required systems and services. In addition, prevent systems from other networks or business functions (e.g., enterprise) from accessing critical process control systems. For example, in IEC 62443, systems within the same secure level should be grouped into a zone, and access to that zone is restricted by a conduit, or mechanism to restrict data flows between zones by segmenting the network.

## Reference

- ATT&CK: https://attack.mitre.org/techniques/T0868

