---
id: T1693.002
title: Module Firmware
category: attack-technique
tags:
- impair-process-control
- inhibit-response-function
- persistence
ecosystem: OT
framework: mitre-attack-ics
framework_version: '19.1'
is_subtechnique: true
parent_id: T1693
tactics:
- Persistence
- Inhibit Response Function
- Impair Process Control
embedding_model: text-embedding-004
embedding: 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
---
# T1693.002 — Module Firmware

**Tactics:** Persistence, Inhibit Response Function, Impair Process Control  ·  **Sub-technique of:** T1693

## Description

Adversaries may install malicious or vulnerable firmware onto modular hardware devices. Control system devices often contain modular hardware devices. These devices may have their own set of firmware that is separate from the firmware of the main control system equipment.

This technique is similar to System Firmware, but is conducted on other system components that may not have the same capabilities or level of integrity checking. Although it results in a device re-image, malicious device firmware may provide persistent access to remaining devices.

An easy point of access for an adversary is the Ethernet card, which may have its own CPU, RAM, and operating system. The adversary may attack and likely exploit the computer on an Ethernet card. Exploitation of the Ethernet card computer may enable the adversary to accomplish additional attacks, such as the following:

* Delayed Attack - The adversary may stage an attack in advance and choose when to launch it, such as at a particularly damaging time.
* Brick the Ethernet Card - Malicious firmware may be programmed to result in an Ethernet card failure, requiring a factory return.
* Random Attack or Failure - The adversary may load malicious firmware onto multiple field devices. Execution of an attack and the time it occurs is generated by a pseudo-random number generator.
* A Field Device Worm - The adversary may choose to identify all field devices of the same model, with the end goal of performing a device-wide compromise.
* Attack Other Cards on the Field Device - Although it is not the most important module in a field device, the Ethernet card is most accessible to the adversary and malware. Compromise of the Ethernet card may provide a more direct route to compromising other modules, such as the CPU module.

## Detection

**Detection of Module Firmware**
- Monitor for firmware changes which may be observable via operational alarms from devices.
Monitor device application logs for firmware changes, although not all devices will produce such logs.
Monitor ICS management protocols / file transfer protocols for protocol functions related to firmware changes.
Monitor firmware for unexpected changes. Asset management systems should be consulted to understand known-good firmware versions. Dump and inspect BIOS images on vulnerable systems and compare against known good images. Analyze differences to determine if malicious changes have occurred. Log attempts to read/write to BIOS and compare against known patching behavior. Likewise, EFI modules can be collected and compared against a known-clean list of EFI executable binaries to detect potentially malicious modules. The CHIPSEC framework can be used for analysis to determine if firmware modifications have been performed. _(log sources: Application Log, Firmware, Network Traffic, Operational Databases)_

## Mitigations

- **Filter Network Traffic** (M0937): Use network appliances to filter ingress or egress traffic and perform protocol-based filtering. Configure software on endpoints to filter network traffic.   Perform inline allow/denylisting of network messages based on the application layer (OSI Layer 7) protocol, especially for automation protocols. Application allowlists are beneficial when there are well-defined communication sequences, types, rates, or patterns needed during expected system operations. Application denylists may be needed if all acceptable communication sequences cannot be defined, but instead a set of known malicious uses can be denied (e.g., excessive communication  attempts, shutdown messages, invalid commands).  Devices performing these functions are often referred to as deep-packet inspection (DPI) firewalls, context-aware firewalls, or firewalls blocking specific automation/SCADA protocol aware firewalls.
- **Network Allowlists** (M0807): Network allowlists can be implemented through either host-based files or system hosts files to specify what connections (e.g., IP address, MAC address, port, protocol) can be made from a device. Allowlist techniques that operate at the  application layer (e.g., DNP3, Modbus, HTTP) are addressed in [Filter Network Traffic](https://attack.mitre.org/mitigations/M0937) mitigation.
- **Network Segmentation** (M0930): Architect sections of the network to isolate critical systems, functions, or resources. Use physical and logical segmentation to prevent access to potentially sensitive systems and information. Use a DMZ to contain any internet-facing services that should not be exposed from the internal network.  Restrict network access to only required systems and services. In addition, prevent systems from other networks or business functions (e.g., enterprise) from accessing critical process control systems. For example, in IEC 62443, systems within the same secure level should be grouped into a zone, and access to that zone is restricted by a conduit, or mechanism to restrict data flows between zones by segmenting the network.
- **Boot Integrity** (M0946): Use secure methods to boot a system and verify the integrity of the operating system and loading mechanisms.
- **Code Signing** (M0945): Enforce binary and application integrity with digital signature verification to prevent untrusted code from executing.
- **Encrypt Network Traffic** (M0808): Utilize strong cryptographic techniques and protocols to prevent eavesdropping on network communications.
- **Access Management** (M0801): Access Management technologies can be used to enforce authorization polices and decisions, especially when existing field devices do not provide sufficient capabilities to support user identification and authentication.  These technologies typically utilize an in-line network device or gateway system to prevent access to unauthenticated users, while also integrating with an authentication service to first verify user credentials.
- **Communication Authenticity** (M0802): When communicating over an untrusted network, utilize secure network protocols that both authenticate the message sender and can verify its integrity. This can be done either through message authentication codes (MACs) or digital signatures, to detect spoofed network messages and unauthorized connections.
- **Audit** (M0947): Perform audits or scans of systems, permissions, insecure software, insecure configurations, etc. to identify potential weaknesses. Perform periodic integrity checks of the device to validate the correctness of the firmware, software, programs, and configurations. Integrity checks, which typically include cryptographic hashes or digital signatures, should be compared to those obtained at known valid states, especially after events like device reboots, program downloads, or program restarts.
- **Encrypt Sensitive Information** (M0941): Protect sensitive data-at-rest with strong encryption.
- **Human User Authentication** (M0804): Require user authentication before allowing access to data or accepting commands to a device. While strong multi-factor authentication is preferable, it is not always feasible within ICS environments. Performing strong user authentication also requires additional security controls and processes which are often the target of related adversarial techniques (e.g., Valid Accounts, Default Credentials). Therefore, associated ATT&CK mitigations should be considered in addition to this, including [Multi-factor Authentication](https://attack.mitre.org/mitigations/M0932), [Account Use Policies](https://attack.mitre.org/mitigations/M0936), [Password Policies](https://attack.mitre.org/mitigations/M0927), [User Account Management](https://attack.mitre.org/mitigations/M0918), [Privileged Account Management](https://attack.mitre.org/mitigations/M0926), and [User Account Control](https://attack.mitre.org/mitigations/M1052).
- **Software Process and Device Authentication** (M0813): Require the authentication of devices and software processes where appropriate. Devices that connect remotely to other systems should require strong authentication to prevent spoofing of communications. Furthermore, software processes should also require authentication when accessing APIs.

## Reference

- ATT&CK: https://attack.mitre.org/techniques/T1693/002

