---
id: T1692.001
title: Command Message
category: attack-technique
tags:
- evasion
- impair-process-control
ecosystem: OT
framework: mitre-attack-ics
framework_version: '19.1'
is_subtechnique: true
parent_id: T1692
tactics:
- Evasion
- Impair Process Control
embedding_model: text-embedding-004
embedding: 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
---
# T1692.001 — Command Message

**Tactics:** Evasion, Impair Process Control  ·  **Sub-technique of:** T1692

## Description

Adversaries may send unauthorized command messages to instruct control system assets to perform actions outside of their intended functionality, or without the logical preconditions to trigger their expected function. Command messages are used in ICS networks to give direct instructions to control systems devices. If an adversary can send an unauthorized command message to a control system, then it can instruct the control systems device to perform an action outside the normal bounds of the device's actions. An adversary could potentially instruct a control systems device to perform an action that will cause an [Impact](https://attack.mitre.org/tactics/TA0105).

In the Dallas Siren incident, adversaries were able to send command messages to activate tornado alarm systems across the city without an impending tornado or other disaster.

## Detection

**Detection of Unauthorized Command Message**
- Monitor industrial process history data for events that correspond with command message functions, such as setpoint modification or changes to system status for key devices. This will not directly detect the technique’s execution, but instead may provide additional evidence that the technique has been used and may complement other detections.
Monitor for anomalous or unexpected commands that may result in changes to the process operation (e.g., discrete write, logic and device configuration, mode changes) observable via asset application logs.
Monitor for new or unexpected connections to controllers, which could indicate an Unauthorized Command Message being sent via [Rogue Master](https://attack.mitre.org/techniques/T0848).
Monitor for anomalous or unexpected commands that may result in changes to the process operation (e.g., discrete write, logic and device configuration, mode changes) observable via asset application logs.
Monitor for unexpected ICS protocol command functions to controllers from existing master devices (including from new processes) or from new devices. The latter is like detection for [Rogue Master](https://attack.mitre.org/techniques/T0848) but requires ICS function level insight to determine if an unauthorized device is issuing commands (e.g., a historian).

Monitoring for unexpected or problematic values below the function level will provide better insights into potentially malicious activity but at the cost of additional false positives depending on the underlying operational process. _(log sources: Application Log, Network Traffic, Operational Databases)_

## Mitigations

- **Communication Authenticity** (M0802): When communicating over an untrusted network, utilize secure network protocols that both authenticate the message sender and can verify its integrity. This can be done either through message authentication codes (MACs) or digital signatures, to detect spoofed network messages and unauthorized connections.
- **Validate Program Inputs** (M0818): Devices and programs designed to interact with control system parameters should validate the format and content of all user inputs and actions to ensure the values are within intended operational ranges. These values should be evaluated and further enforced through the program logic running on the field controller. If a problematic or invalid input is identified, the programs should either utilize a predetermined safe value or enter a known safe state, while also logging or alerting on the event.
- **Filter Network Traffic** (M0937): Use network appliances to filter ingress or egress traffic and perform protocol-based filtering. Configure software on endpoints to filter network traffic.   Perform inline allow/denylisting of network messages based on the application layer (OSI Layer 7) protocol, especially for automation protocols. Application allowlists are beneficial when there are well-defined communication sequences, types, rates, or patterns needed during expected system operations. Application denylists may be needed if all acceptable communication sequences cannot be defined, but instead a set of known malicious uses can be denied (e.g., excessive communication  attempts, shutdown messages, invalid commands).  Devices performing these functions are often referred to as deep-packet inspection (DPI) firewalls, context-aware firewalls, or firewalls blocking specific automation/SCADA protocol aware firewalls.
- **Software Process and Device Authentication** (M0813): Require the authentication of devices and software processes where appropriate. Devices that connect remotely to other systems should require strong authentication to prevent spoofing of communications. Furthermore, software processes should also require authentication when accessing APIs.
- **Network Allowlists** (M0807): Network allowlists can be implemented through either host-based files or system hosts files to specify what connections (e.g., IP address, MAC address, port, protocol) can be made from a device. Allowlist techniques that operate at the  application layer (e.g., DNP3, Modbus, HTTP) are addressed in [Filter Network Traffic](https://attack.mitre.org/mitigations/M0937) mitigation.
- **Network Segmentation** (M0930): Architect sections of the network to isolate critical systems, functions, or resources. Use physical and logical segmentation to prevent access to potentially sensitive systems and information. Use a DMZ to contain any internet-facing services that should not be exposed from the internal network.  Restrict network access to only required systems and services. In addition, prevent systems from other networks or business functions (e.g., enterprise) from accessing critical process control systems. For example, in IEC 62443, systems within the same secure level should be grouped into a zone, and access to that zone is restricted by a conduit, or mechanism to restrict data flows between zones by segmenting the network.

## Reference

- ATT&CK: https://attack.mitre.org/techniques/T1692/001

